---
title: "Detection of Malicious Transactions in Database using Dynamic Sensitivity
and Weight Rule Mining"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-03-publication-ids2017
excerpt: 'Development of an Intrusion Detection System built on top of an RBAC System to find anomalous reading and writing activity patterns.'
date: 2017-03-01
venue: '2017 International Conference on Innovations in Information, Embedded and Communication Systems (ICIIECS)'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8276084/'
citation: 'I. Singh, S. Sareen and H. Ahuja, "Detection of malicious transactions in databases using dynamic sensitivity and weighted rule mining," 2017 International Conference on Innovations in Information, Embedded and Communication Systems (ICIIECS), Coimbatore, 2017, pp. 1-8'
---
The development of an Intrusion Detection System for Database Security has grown into an undeniable necessity in the past few years. In order to maintain scalability and dynamicity of database systems, detecting privilege abuse is of foremost importance. Most researchers have presented either a static or database dependent solution to the existing problem of Insider Attacks. Our Approach, Dynamic Sensitivity Driven Rule Generation Algorithm (DSDRGA) detects intrusive transactions and therefore safeguards crucial data from modification. Sensitivity of data attributes and the data dependency rules are dynamically determined by mining frequent sequences from normal user data access patterns retrieved from the audit log. The extent of weighted similarity between the mined rules and the incoming transactions is used to classify the transaction as malicious or normal user behaviour. DSDRGA gives promising results in the detection of malicious transactions when evaluated on a characteristic banking dataset.

[Download paper here.](http://babahooja.github.io/files/ids2017.pdf)

Recommended citation: I. Singh, S. Sareen and H. Ahuja, "Detection of malicious transactions in databases using dynamic sensitivity and weighted rule mining," 2017 International Conference on Innovations in Information, Embedded and Communication Systems (ICIIECS), Coimbatore, 2017, pp. 1-8
