---
title: "Supported Matrix Factorization using Distributed Representations for Personalised Recommendations on Twitter"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-07-drsmf
excerpt: 'Personalized user and hashtag recommendations for microblogging platforms for categorization of user activity.'
date: 2018-07-23
venue: 'Computer and Electrical Engineering, Vol. 71, Elsevier, pp. 569-577'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0045790618312084'
citation: 'Citation will be updated soon'
---
Microblogging is one of the most prevalent media for sharing news on the Internet. Microblogging platforms, such as Twitter have proven to be of great success in targeted marketing, alerting about natural disasters and promoting government policies among others; But most of this relevant information in microblogs is side-lined, owing to information overload, rendering any practical utility of the platform as ineffective. Hence, it is crucial to filter data and recommend only relevant information to the users. Interestingly, to pertain and appeal to a certain community, users make the use of *hashtags* $\#$, which in turn, helps in the efficient categorization and summarization of microblogs. In this paper, we exploit this advantage through a novel framework for a recommendation system, Distributed Representation based Supported Matrix Factorization (DRSMF) build on top of Probabilistic Matrix Factorization (PMF) and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs). The RNNs generate character-level distributed representations for each tweet to overcome the solecistic use of sentence structure in microblogs. The framework further performs a multi-modal analysis on the microblog posts to recommend similar users and *hashtags*, which assists in countering information-overload. Our framework outperforms standard PMF techniques by the use of constrained regularisation on latent factor representations.

The experimental results showed that DRSMF outperforms the baseline probabilistic matrix factorization framework. The above results also show the robustness of our framework against the semantically noisy environment of microblogging platforms. Our framework is able to capture the relevance of users and *hashtags* through explicit and implicit features of the *tweets* and recommend similar users and *hashtags* for newly created microblogs. In future, we aim to extend the proposed framework to handle image and hyperlink data. Furthermore, the proposed framework can be adapted with a time series evaluation architecture for fake news detection and disaster localization.

<!-- [Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper2.pdf) -->

<!-- Recommended citation: Your Name, You. (2010). "Paper Title Number 2." <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(2). -->
